everybody exact from my Shire farm today
we're going to be talking about
incubator and lockdown we do have a few
videos on our YouTube channel already
but there's a couple reasons why I'm
going to redo it so number one this was
our first incubator slash lockdown that
we made this was I don't know 2017 maybe
and so now we only use this for non
quail so we've got chickens and peacocks
and ducks and geese all kinds of stuff
and then we try to incubate them so that
all stays in here it has its own
separate lockdown down here which is
really helpful
however we went from this to this so
this is just for the quail there's a
couple things that I want to talk about
about this number one if you're
incubating I highly recommend even if
you didn't purchase from us if you
purchased local or about from another
breeder and they shipped it doesn't
matter you need to go to our website my
shire farm com go to the blog section
and there is a hatching guide on there
you can print that out it's a PDF form
and it'll tell you temperatures and
humidity and turning it really is very
helpful so I highly recommend you do
that but this consistently stays at 99.5
of course right now it's ninety nine
point four but it's ninety nine point
five degrees and then it's consistently
at forty between 42 to 47 percent
humidity which is my safe zone kindness
so what we did was we do have a humidity
that you can get on eBay or website and
that's what it are eBay or Amazon and
that's what it's called as a humid it so
we do have that but because this is so
large we actually have a tub up here
that has some sponges in it that has a
water line automatic water line to it
that keeps it filled up so
with those two it helps with the
humidity now also helping with the
humidity is we've got a fan here a fan
here here and here so that it's
circulating all the way around so
there's no hot spots there's no cold
spots there's no dead spots so that
helps tremendously too now you might say
how do you turn these eggs I'm glad you
asked it is not it is on an automatic
timer but I can manually do it whenever
so I'll show you now so it goes up and
down obviously and then this is set for
every four hours I believe so it'll
automatically do it every four hours
hour two hours it's two hours I'm sorry
every two hours we'll we'll flip them
back and forth it automatically does it
so as you can see you know we've got
research in here we've got the ones that
we're gonna hatch out to sell because we
ship live birds sell and then we also
have we do custom hatches it's local
pickup only unless it's a large order
and then we deliver within reason but so
like for example this person about 400
chicks so those are in but if I need a
candle because we can do everything that
comes out of it what I would do is are
manually have it turn and then we've got
a switch here that I can stop it
wherever I want open up the door pull it
out and then I just got to remember to
flip that button again we also have
we've got three buttons back here the
second one is the lights which doesn't
really help anything I just think it
looks cooler with the lights in it and
then the third one is the fans so if I
hit this button all the fans stop but
one thing that when we built this one I
didn't build it George and Dennis did
Papa but when they built this we wanted
to make sure that we could clean it fast
and easy
so what they did was they built
everything in here all the electric
is quick connect and quick disconnect
and then all the shelves and everything
is literally just a pop-out so within 5
or 10 minutes I can have everything out
of this we roll it to the drain over
here and then we just pressure wash the
crap out of it scrub it down and we're
good to go so that is a wonderful thing
to be able to make sure that this stays
clean and I think that is all that I
want to say about the incubator I
believe if I think something else will
come right back because from day one to
day 14 they're in here on the morning of
day 15 is when we move them and we move
them over to our lockdown now this is
straight up a lockdown it does not turn
it is just the same temperature 99.5 but
the humidity is between 65 and 75
percent now we change out our guides all
the time just because they don't seem to
last very long but we've got them all
over the place if it gets too hot this
fan automatically turns our turns on and
it kind of gets some stuff out of there
so that's pretty cool and the humidity
is pretty much the same deal as what we
have over here but pretty much what we
do is we'll just take out the tray we'll
candle it we'll take the ones that are
not fertile or whatever out and then
we'll transfer them over right now I
don't have any in here so I can open
this up for you
so we'll just transfer this over to one
of these and then each one of these can
hold up to 250 eggs but typically we
only like to put about 175 in there so
they have some room I don't like to jam
them up too much especially when they
start hatching because it's like popcorn
so that's that that's the incubator from
where we started to where we're at now
we also have if you've watched our other
videos our Gigantor which is very
similar to this this is I guess Gigantor
2.0 we have that one still in the old
barn and we're going to be making sure
that we
redo it where we can also take
everything out and things like that but
we just haven't gotten to it yet
and then this is our lockdown and then
we've got another lockdown over here
that's the same way so that's that and
then once they hatch out we leave them
in there for 24 hours to dry off and
then we just pull the tray out and I'll
just show you a couple babies real quick
and then we put them in here so there's
your cute picture for the day so stay
tuned I've got a lot more videos coming
your way the goal is to be posting at
least once a week for quite a while
so I'll be doing that and if you have
any questions make sure you join me
every Sunday at 7 p.m. Eastern Standard
Time on our YouTube channel my shire
farm I do a live Q&A every Sunday at 7
p.m. so if you have any questions about
the incubator or lockdown or temperature
or humidity or whatever feel free to
join me there and I'll be happy to
answer your questions we will see you
next time thanks for watching we'll see
you soon